<h1>What is poudriere?</h1>

poudriere is a tool primarily designed to test package production on
FreeBSD. However, most people will find it useful to bulk build ports
for FreeBSD.

Its goals are to use modern facilities present in FreeBSD (as ZFS,
jails), to be easy to use and to depend only on base.

It is not designed to build the whole portstree like tinderbox does.

poudriere is able to build packages for versions of FreeBSD that are
different from the box on which it is installed, and also to build
packages for i386 if the host is an amd64 box.

Once the package building is done, the packages will be in a layout
identical to the official mirrors. Therefore they will be useable by any
package management tool (pkg_add, portmaster, and so on).


<h1>What poudriere needs?</h1>

  *  FreeBSD
  *  a ZFS pool with at least 7GB of free space
  *  root access

That is all. For more comfort, we recommend to have quite a lot of RAM
in order to make the builds in a VM resident filesystem.


<h1>How to install it?</h1>

Just type "make" at the top-level directory.


<h1>What do I have to configure before starting use it?</h1>

 <h2>Create a mandatory configuration file</h2>

Poudriere will look for a configuration file in /usr/local/etc.

Copy the default configuration file:

    <verbatim>cp /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf.sample /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf</verbatim>

then edit it:

    <verbatim>$EDITOR /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf</verbatim>

The comments inside the configuration file should be sufficient.

<h2>Examples</h2>

See poudriere(8).

<h1>How-to...</h1>

 <h2>...manage poudriere ports using portshaker</h2>

Ensure you are running at least portshaker 1.0.5


Configure the 'foo' ports tree in /usr/local/etc/portshaker.conf like this:

    <verbatim>ports_trees="... p_foo"
use_zfs="yes"
poudriere_dataset="data/poudriere"
poudriere_ports_mountpoint="/usr/local/poudriere/ports"

foo_poudriere_tree="foo"
foo_merge_from="ports ..."
</verbatim>

You can then use portshaker to manage poudriere portstree:

    <verbatim>portshaker</verbatim>

Then, use the 'foo' ports tree as a regular poudriere ports tree:

    <verbatim>poudriere ports -l</verbatim>

 <h2>...use the generated packages with portmaster</h2>

First, install portmaster from the void:

    <verbatim>fetch -o - http://ftp.fr.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/ports/packages/All/portmaster-3.9.tbz | \
pkg_add -r -</verbatim>

Then, configure it:

    <verbatim>mkdir -p /usr/ports/Mk
touch /usr/ports/Mk/bsd.port.mk

cat > /usr/local/etc/portmaster.rc<<EOF
MASTER_SITE_INDEX=http://example.com/82i386/
LOCALBASE=/usr/local
PACKAGESITE=http://example.com/82i386/
PM_PACKAGES=only
PM_INDEX=yes
PM_INDEX_ONLY=pm_index_only
EOF
</verbatim>

Of course you have to install a HTTP server, with /82i386/ an alias to
/usr/local/poudriere_data/packages/bulk-82i386.

You are now ready to invoke portmaster:

    <verbatim>portmaster editors/vim</verbatim>

 <h2>...use ccache with poudriere</h2>

Define the CCACHE_DIR to use in your /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf:

    <verbatim>
echo "CCACHE_DIR=/usr/obj/ccache" >> /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf
mkdir -p /usr/obj/ccache
</verbatim>

Configure the make.conf to use CCACHE:

    <verbatim>echo "USE_CCACHE=yes" >> /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/make.conf</verbatim>

Add this into the port tree's Mk/bsd.local.mk before the last .endif:

    <verbatim>
.if defined(USE_CCACHE) && !${.CURDIR:M*/devel/ccache} && !${.CURDIR:M*/ports-mgmt/pkg}
BUILD_DEPENDS+=         ${LOCALBASE}/bin/ccache:${PORTSDIR}/devel/ccache
.endif

.if defined(USE_CCACHE) && !${CC:M*ccache*}
MAKE_ENV+=      PATH=${LOCALBASE}/libexec/ccache/world:${PATH}
.endif
</verbatim>
This last step is a temporary solution until it can be put into the ports framework by default.


Happy FreeBSDing!
