# What is poudriere?

poudriere is a BSD-2 licensed tool primarily designed to test package production on
FreeBSD. However, most people will find it useful to bulk build ports
for FreeBSD.

Its goals are to use modern facilities present in FreeBSD, to be easy to use,
to depend only on base, and to be parallel.

It is able to build the whole portstree like tinderbox does.

poudriere is able to build packages for versions of FreeBSD that are
different from the box on which it is installed, and also to build
packages for i386 if the host is an amd64 box.

Once the package building is done, the packages will be in a layout
identical to the official mirrors. Therefore they will be useable by any
package management tool (pkg_add, portmaster, and so on).

# What does poudriere require?

  *  Recent FreeBSD (>= 8.3)
  *  Root access

That is all. For more comfort, we recommend to have quite a lot of RAM
in order to make the builds in a VM resident filesystem.

# How to install it?

Just run:

```
pkg install poudriere
```

# What do I need to configure before being able to start using it?

## Create a mandatory configuration file

Poudriere will look for a configuration file in /usr/local/etc.

Copy the default configuration file:

```
cp /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf.sample /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf
```

then edit it:

```
$EDITOR /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf
```

The comments inside the configuration file should be sufficient.

## Documentation

  *  [poudriere(8)](./poudriere.8.wiki).
  *  [Release notes](./relnotes.mkd).

## How-to...

  *  [...manage poudriere ports using portshaker](./portshaker.mkd)
  *  [...create and maintain pkgng repositories](./pkgng_repos.mkd)
  *  [...use the generated packages with portmaster](./portmaster.mkd)
  *  [...use ccache with poudriere](./ccache.mkd)
  *  [...easily generate options](./config.mkd)
  *  [...use the system ports tree in poudriere](./use_system_ports_tree.mkd)
  *  [...using testport to test ports](./using_testport.mkd)

## Quick Links

  *  [View difference between trunk and 3.0.x branch]
  *  [View difference between trunk and dragonfly branch]

## Hacking

To hack on poudriere you first need to install git:

```
# pkg install git
```

and clone the repo:

```
# git clone https://github.com/freebsd/poudriere
# cd poudriere
```

## Known Issues

  *  [Tickets](https://github.com/freebsd/poudriere/issues)
  *  [Todo](./todo.mkd)

## Contributing

Any of these options are available for contributing:

  *  Send github Pull Request
  *  Post link to patch in #poudriere on freenode
  *  Post patch to freebsd-pkg@FreeBSD.org

Happy FreeBSDing!

Join us on IRC: #poudriere on Freenode
