<h1>Release notes</h1>

<h2>3.1 (DRAFT)</h2>

<verbatim>
 * New HTML interface. There is now a top-level and jail-level interface that
   shows all known jails and builds within those jails. This will only show
   builds done after upgrading. This requires updates to your httpd. Please
   see the examples in /usr/local/share/poudriere/examples for how to
   configure yours.
 * New feature "ATOMIC_PACKAGE_REPOSITORY". This will avoid touching the
   repository during builds, allowing it to be continued to be served without
   having packages go missing.
 * COMMIT_PACKAGES_ON_FAILURE can be set to 'no' to only publish the built
   packages if no failures are encountered. On the next 'bulk' run the
   packages staged from the previous run will be re-used if not yet published.
 * KEEP_OLD_PACKAGES can be set to 'yes' to keep up to KEEP_OLD_PACKAGES_COUNT
   number of repositories in symlinked dirs. The top-level files will be
   symlinked to .latest/ for the corresponding repository. This can be used to
   allow a rollback. Just change where the .latest/ symlink points to.
 * Bulk now supports a dry mode with -n. ATOMIC_PACKAGE_REPOSITORY is
   required.
 * New and improved 'status' command to show current and older builds.
 * Poudriere now uses color in its output. This can be disabled with
   USE_COLOR=no or 'poudriere -N'. It is automatically disabled if not running
   in a tty.
 * There is a new 'queue' command that uses a 'poudriered' backend. Commands
   will automatically be queued if ran from non-root and 'poudriered' is running.
   This is still under development though and is expected to be documented and
   improved for 3.2.
 * The queue is now prioritized based on the depth of the dependency chain for
   each package, rather than its direct dependencies. Ports can be boosted by
   adding their PKGNAME (or a glob) to PRIORITY_BOOST.
 * TIMESTMAP_LOGS can be set to 'yes' to add a timestamp to every port build
   line.
 * ALLOW_MAKE_JOBS_PACKAGES can be set to a list of PKGNAME (or globs) that
   will be ran with MAKE_JOBS. Otherwise the normal behavior of not running
   with MAKE_JOBS is preserved with 'bulk' when ALLOW_MAKE_JOBS is not set.
 * Poudriere will now only rebuild what is explicitly listed as needed in the
   -f list or on the cmdline. Anything not in the list or its dependencies may
   be removed during sanity checking. This can be overridden by setting
   TRIM_ORPHANED_BUILD_DEPS to 'no'. Note that either way the repository will
   be inconsistent. It is recommended to always run with the list of packages
   expected, and not try to do one-off builds of 1 port.
 * Many bugfixes and performance improvements.
</verbatim>
