<h1>Todo and Known Issues</h1>

<h2>3.0</h2>

These should be fixed in <strong>trunk</strong> and then merged back to <strong>3.0.x</strong> after enough testing.

  *  stage-orphan issue: [http://gbpaste.org/omGBx] (@owner root @group root @mode 4555 FILE @owner @group @mode)  (May be fixed by [f08c1158f0])
  *  stage-orphan issue between devel/gettext multimedia/phonon having to do with injail mtree change in [9de071c9ec], see Ticket [940f8cf068]
  *  Possibly a ZFS ports tree issue where the tree is checked out before filesystem created - might have been operator error.
  *  Document hooks
  *  Validate 'jail -c -v amd64' is a number!
  *  jail has major issues with error handling/cleanup:
  *  jail -c does not cleanup jail on failure
  *  failure in jail -u freebsd-update can leave '91amd64' running with no way to stop it
  *  Write out json early, before compute_deps, so the webpage is not blank/loading for several minutes
  *  show TOBUILD count in SIGINFO
  *  pkg bootstrap skipping sanity is no good, skips all version checks. Need to have a bootstrap mode so it reruns.
  *  This is wrong, should skip shell-meta as npm was skipped, not because node failed:
<verbatim>
     ====>> [01] Finished build of www/node: Failed: build
     ====>> [01] Skipping build of www/npm: Dependent port www/node failed
     ====>> [01] Skipping build of local/shell-meta: Dependent port www/node failed
</verbatim>
  *  testport -n should probably become default, or we make a serious effort to cleanup known bad framework or mark them special in poudriere (python,ruby,etc)
  *  testport -I gives wrong msg (needs -jpz): ====>> To stop jail: poudriere jail -k -j exp-91amd64-commit-test
  *  Incorrect dependency/option rebuilding: [https://forums.freebsd.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=44963]
  *  False positive old ver delete seen: ====>> Deleting old version: dovecot-sieve-1.2 0.1.19.txz
  *  new dependency checking should account for DELETED deps too (might not be an issue)
  *  options checking needs to account for DELETED options (reported by feld)
  *  Document/test portshaker usage
  *  pkgclean/options MOVED support
  *  Fix $(()) usage for 8.3
  *  Display DEPRECATED ports at end and UNMAINTAINED ports.

<h2>3.1</h2>
  *  Allow dependency calculation to optionally not exit on first failure. Complex as errors come from many places, reporting all errors at once may be even more complex. (bulk -k)
  *  Merge marino's fixes for webui with bdrewery's bootstrap work
  *  convert+import updated processonelog
  *  options needs to be jailed.
  *  <strong>logclean</strong> to cleanup old logs (bdrewery has this started). Note that not easily possible to show "free space" calc due to this involving mostly hard-links.
  *  add hook for ports updating, before/after (status ptname path)
  *  Allow creating jail from existing /usr/src (or other) dir.
  *  Hooks for jail startup/end to be able to customize jail on-demand, see [https://github.com/davehayes/poudriere/commit/721d19562443d4caa61739203139f0da94e0336c]
  *  new dependency check should move to <strong>Mk/bsd.port.mk</strong>
  *  testport with leftovers results in 'crashed'
  *  "soft exit", "exit when idle" mode, SIGUSR1
  *  Allow git method for jail

<h3>Stability</h3>

  *  There is substantial risk that large ports build at once and consume all RAM/swap and cause a OOM or panic. Either need to make the queue wait on these known large ones or monitor the amount of remaining memory and current CPU load and delay builds while high. Note that hidden in this task is reworking the queue to allow delaying builds. This is not possible currently and conflicts with detecting a stuck/deadlocked queue. A more flexible queue would allow retrying fetch failures or failed builds (due to memory constraints).
<verbatim>
    # An attempt to get % memory used, considering ARC_MFU as non-free.
    sysctl -n vm.stats.vm.v_inactive_count vm.stats.vm.v_cache_count vm.stats.vm.v_free_count hw.physmem kstat.zfs.misc.arcstats.size vfs.zfs.mfu_size hw.pagesize|tr '\n' ' '| { read vm1 vm2 vm3 physmem arc arc_mfu pagesize; echo "scale=2;((${physmem} - ((${vm1} + ${vm2} + ${vm3}) * ${pagesize}) - ${arc} + ${arc_mfu}) / ${physmem}) * 100"|bc;}
</verbatim>
  *  <em>madvise(2)</em> the main poudriere pid so that OOM will allow poudriere to continue/cleanup.
  *  [http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=rctl&sektion=8&manpath=FreeBSD+9.0-RELEASE|rctl(8)] support to limit jail memory usage. This may hurt performance, but will ensure no jail uses all RAM. ulimit -m does not work per-jail, it is only per-process.
  *  Assigning jails cpusets to ensure misbehaving ports don't hog all CPU and only use the expected *1* CPU.
  *  <em>build_pkg</em> startup failure can "crash" a jail and all future builds on it. This can be seen by putting a false a few lines into <em>build_pkg</em>
  *  <em>build_pkg</em>: Ports which fail to cleanup (some race where rm -rf dir/ results in "directory not empty" warnings) will cause a jail to fail to cleanup in next build and result in a crashed builder. Ignoring cleanup is not an option as we must rollback the jail on startup to avoid ports affecting later builds. Killing the jail and all processes in it may be enough to fix this. Though the code should work as is now, there seems to be a race or bug with ref counting vnodes. Not tmpfs-specific.
  *  <em>build_pkg</em> crashing near end and not cleaning up the current build from the queue will later end up with a "Stuck queue bug" because the build was lost and later ports think they still need to build it, but it's not in the queue itself.
  *  Fetch retrying is critical. A major port failing to fetch due to intermittent issues leads to the whole tree being skipped. This probably should be fixed in <strong>Mk/bsd.port.mk</strong> as currently <em>make checksum</em> does not retry to fetch on download failure, only checksum failure.
  *  If poudriere crashes it can leave behind its <em>ref</em> jail which confuses <strong>poudriere status</strong> into thinking a build is still running. This is problematic for automated builds. This can be fixed by having poudriere record its pid somewhere and having <strong>status</strong> kill -0 the pid to see if it still running. We could <em>madvise</em> the poudriere master process to not get killed in OOM, but a panic could still lead to stale files.

<h3>Poudriered</h3>

  *  <em>-j all</em> support needed in clients, or <strong>poudriered</strong>. Placing into <strong>poudriered</strong> would allow logically grouping the job together better
  *  queue needs support for queuing to the socket
  *  Remove daemon.sh
  *  Configuration for how many jobs can run at once for <strong>poudriered</strong>
  *  Queueing is asynchronous now, but only 1 (or configuration per above) should run at a time
  *  HTML Queue page linking to builds

<h2>Future</h2>

  *  Package seeding (download from elsewhere). This must be smart and check remote options/dependencies before downloading and compare to local. If the incremental build will end up deleting it right away then don't download. If we download after sanity then we need to ensure the packages download match what the build actually needs.
  *  Main stats landing page
  *  Start building faster, during compute-deps if possible. I.e., <em>ports-mgmt/pkg</em> can build immediately before any dependency checking since it has none. Generalizing this may allow more to build as they are determined to have little dependencies.
  *  Status lacks showing <em>jail -cu</em>
  *  Speedup dep calculation more. Original idea here was to deteect if ports tree changed and to cache everything. Detecting if the tree changed though is slow with stat(2) all files.


<h2>4.0</h2>

4.0 will essentially be a rewrite with new architecture. Most code will move to C and we will design the architecture to support distributed builds.

  *  Need updated [./design.mkd|Design] for 3.x and one for 4.x
  *  Need to document requirements (3.x functionality) to ensure we don't lose functionality,checks or regress.
  *  Privilege separation with [http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=nv&apropos=0&sektion=3&manpath=FreeBSD+11-current&arch=default&format=html|libnv(3)]. Sub-commands should not be ran as root, rather specific needs should be passed to <strong>poudriered</strong> such as <em>jail_start</em> or <em>jail_switch_networking</em>.
  *  Sandboxing with [http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=capsicum&apropos=0&sektion=0&manpath=FreeBSD+10.0-RELEASE&arch=default&format=html|Capsicum]
  *  Currently poudriere executes everything from the context of the host using jexec. This hurts performance a lot as every jexec and fork/exec creates a lot of lock contention. The jail should spawn up a client and the host (master) should communicate to it with commands. This also improves sandboxing substatially as it avoids accidentlly forgetting <strong>injail</strong> in the code. This architecture lends itself to remote jails/builders as well.
  *  REST daemon
  *  Separate jail for fetching; only that jail gets networking. No more flipping networking by restarting jails as it leads to a lot of lock contention.
  *  Use automated testing from the start.

<h2>Wishlist</h2>

  *  Unionfs fixed
  *  <strong>tmpfs -o clone</strong> with COW support. This would greatly reduce the amount of RAM needed to use tmpfs and speedup jail creation, rollback, etc. ZFS almost accomplishes this but it still will eventually write blocks back to disk. If ZFS had a <em>tmpfs</em> option to never write the data to disk this would also suffice.
