.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd November 4, 2025
.Dt POUDRIERE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm poudriere
.Nd bulk package builder and port tester
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar poudriere-options
.Cm command
.Op Ar command-options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool is used to build packages from the ports tree.
It can also be used to test a single port.
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
.Nm
accepts the following global options.
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl A
Force color support, even if not in a TTY.
.It Fl e Ar etcdir
Path to the directory where
.Nm
will find its configuration data.
See
.Sx FILES
and
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
for more information.
.It Fl N
Disable color support.
.It Fl s Ar var
Inherit the default for
.Ar var
from the environment.
.It Fl s Ar var=value
Set the default for
.Ar var
to the given
.Ar value .
.It Fl v
This will show more information during the build.
Specify twice to enable debug output.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
The first argument to
.Nm
must be a
.Cm command
from the following list:
.Bl -tag -width 5
.It Cm audit ( Xr poudriere-audit 8 )
Audit packages using
.Xr pkg-audit 8 .
.It Cm bulk ( Xr poudriere-bulk 8 )
This command makes a ready-to-export package tree, and fills it with
binary packages built from a given list of ports.
During the build, hit ^T to send
.Dv SIGINFO
and show stats and progress about the build.
.It Cm image Xr ( poudriere-image 8 )
This command creates images.
.It Cm jail Xr ( poudriere-jail 8 )
This command manages the
.Nm
jails which are used as different building environments.
.It Cm ports Xr ( poudriere-ports 8 )
This command provides management of different portstrees which will be used
by
.Nm .
.It Cm testport Xr ( poudriere-testport 8 )
This command, mainly targeted at ports developers, launches a
test on a given port (useful before submitting/committing a port).
.It Cm options Xr ( poudriere-options 8 )
This command configures the options for a given port
.It Cm logclean Xr ( poudriere-logclean 8 )
This command will cleanup old logfiles
.It Cm distclean Xr ( poudriere-distclean 8 )
This command will cleanup old distfiles
.It Cm pkgclean Xr ( poudriere-pkgclean 8 )
This command will cleanup old and unwanted packages
.It Cm queue Xr ( poudriere-queue 8 )
This command allows a non-root user to queue
.Nm
commands.
It is currently
.Sy EXPERIMENTAL .
Using it requires starting
.Sy poudriered
via the provided rc script.
.It Cm status Xr ( poudriere-status 8 )
This command shows status of current and previous builds
.It Cm version Xr ( poudriere-version 8 )
Show version of
.Nm .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The environment is cleared of variables not listed in this section, the
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
section of a subcommand, specified with
.Fl s Ar var
or
.Fl s Ar var=value ,
or listed in
.Ev POUDRIERE_ENV_INHERIT .
.Bl -tag -width "POUDRIERE_ENV_INHERIT"
.It Ev POUDRIERE_ENV_INHERIT
A list of variable names that will be inherited from the environment.
.It Ev POUDRIERE_ETC
If specified, the path to poudriere's config directory.
Defaults to
.Pa /usr/local/etc .
.It Ev UMASK
The umask for files created by
.Nm .
Defaults to
.Sy 022.
.El
.Pp
See subcommand manpage
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
sections for more information.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa POUDRIERE_ETC/poudriere.d/poudriere.conf" -compact
.It Pa POUDRIERE_ETC/poudriere.conf
See self-documented
.Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf.sample
for example.
.It Pa POUDRIERE_ETC/poudriere.d/poudriere.conf
The configuration can be stored in the poudriere.d directory as well.
.It Pa POUDRIERE_ETC/poudriere.d
This directory contains various configuration files for the different jails.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Bulk build of specific binary packages
This first example provides a guide on how to use
.Nm
for bulk build packages.
.Pp
.Bq Prepare infrastructure
.Pp
First you have to create a jail, which will hold all the building
infrastructure needs.
.Pp
.Dl "poudriere jail -c -v 13.1-RELEASE -a amd64 -j 131amd64"
.Pp
A jail will take approximately 3GB of space.
.Pp
Of course you can use another version of
.Fx ,
regardless of what version you are running.
amd64 users can choose i386 arch like in this
example:
.Pp
.Dl "poudriere jail -c -v 13.0-RELEASE -a i386 -j 130i386"
.Pp
This command will fetch and install a minimal jail, small (~400MB) so
you can create a lot of them.
It will install the jail under the pool
you have chosen, at poudriere/jailname.
.Pp
You also need to have at least one ports tree to build packages from,
so let us take the default configuration and create a ports tree.
.Pp
.Dl "poudriere ports -c"
.Pp
A ports tree will take approximately 4GB of space.
.Pp
.Bq Specify a list of ports you want to build
.Pp
Create a flat text file in which you put the ports you want to see
built by
.Nm :
.Pp
.Dl "echo 'sysutils/screen' > ~/pkglist"
.Dl "echo 'editors/vim' >> ~/pkglist"
.Pp
Any line starting with the hash sign will be treated as a comment.
.Pp
.Bq Launch the bulk build
.Pp
Now you can launch the bulk build.
At minimum the jail and list of packages to build must be specified.
.Pp
.Dl "poudriere bulk -f ~/pkglist -j 130i386"
.Pp
.Bq Find your packages
.Pp
Once the bulk build is over, you can meet your shiny new packages here:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/poudriere/data/packages/130i386
.Pp
with 130i386 as the name of the jail.
.Ss Test a single port
This second example show how to use
.Nm
for a single port.
Take the example of building a single port;
.Pp
.Dl "poudriere testport -o category/port -j myjail"
.Pp
all the tests will be done in myjail.
.Pp
It starts the jail, then mount the ports tree (nullfs), then mounts the
package dir (poudriere/data/packages/<jailname>-<tree>-<setname>), then it mounts the
~/ports-cvs/mybeautifulporttotest (nullfs) it builds all the dependencies
(except runtime ones) and log it to
poudriere/data/logs/testport/jailname/default/mybeautifulporttotest.log).
.Pp
If packages for the dependencies already exist, then
.Nm
will use them.
.Pp
When all the dependencies are built, packages for them are created so
that next time it will be faster.
.Pp
All the dependency phase is done with PREFIX == LOCALBASE.
.Pp
After that it will build the port itself with LOCALBASE != PREFIX
and log the build to
poudriere/data/logs/testport/jailname/default/mybeautifulporttotest.log
.Pp
Poudriere will try to:
install it,
create a package from it,
deinstall it,
check for cruft left behind and
propose the line to add to pkg-plist if needed.
.Pp
Poudriere is very easy to extend so that additional tests can be easily added.
.Sh FLAVORS
.Cm bulk -a
will build all FLAVORS for each port.
Otherwise
.Cm bulk
and
.Cm testport
use the following rules:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
A FLAVOR of
.Sy bar
for port
.Pa devel/foo
is specified as
.Sy devel/foo@bar .
.El
.Pp
If
.Va FLAVOR_DEFAULT_ALL
is not set, or is set to
.Sy no
(the default), in
.Pa poudriere.conf,
then:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
All FLAVORS for a port, without a specified FLAVOR, will be built
using the FLAVOR
.Sy all :
.Sy devel/foo@all .
.It
The first (default) FLAVOR for a port is built by not specifying a FLAVOR:
.Sy devel/foo .
.El
.Pp
If
.Va FLAVOR_DEFAULT_ALL
is set to
.Sy yes
in
.Pa poudriere.conf,
then:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
All FLAVORS for a port, without a specified FLAVOR, will be built:
.Sy devel/foo .
.It
The first (default) FLAVOR for a port is built by specifying the FLAVOR
.Sy - :
.Sy devel/foo@-
.El
.Pp
.Ss Known issues
.Bl -bullet -compat
.It
An invalid FLAVOR for a port will cause an error during dependency calculation.
.El
.Sh CUSTOMIZATION
For bulk building, you can customize binary packages produced by
.Nm
by changing build options port by port, and you can also specify
building directives in a make.conf file.
.Ss Custom build options
Before building a package,
.Nm
can mount a directory containing option files if available.
.Nm
will check for any of these directories in this order:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-<setname>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<setname>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-<setname>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-options
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/options
.Pp
If a directory with this name exists, it is null-mounted into the
.Pa /var/db/ports/
directory of the jail, thus allowing to build package
with custom OPTIONS.
.Pp
The
.Cm options
subcommand can be used to easily configure options in the correct directory.
.Pp
This directory has the usual layout for options: it contains one directory per
port (the name of the port) containing an 'options' file with lines similar to:
.Pp
.Dl WITH_FOO=true
.Dl WITHOUT_BAR=true
.Pp
As a starter, you may want to copy an existing
.Pa /var/db/ports/
to
.Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/options .
.Ss Blacklist ports
You can also specify a blacklist which will disallow the lists port origins
from building on the matched jail.
.Pp
FLAVOR handling is different than described in the
.Sx FLAVORS
section.
.Bl -tag -width "devel/foo@bar" -compact
.It Cm devel/foo
Blacklist every FLAVOR.
.It Cm devel/foo@all
Blacklist every FLAVOR.
.It Cm devel/foo@-
Blacklist only the default FLAVOR.
.It Cm devel/foo@bar
Blacklist only the
.Sy bar
FLAVOR.
.El
.Pp
Any of the following are allowed and will all be used in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-<setname>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<setname>-blacklist
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-<setname>-blacklist
.Pp
If QEMU is being used then a special qemu blacklist is also loaded.
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/qemu-blacklist
.Ss Create optional poudriere.conf
You can also specify an optional poudriere.conf that is pulled in
depending on the build.
Any of the following are allowed and will all be used in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-<setname>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<setname>-poudriere.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-<setname>-poudriere.conf
.Pp
Running
.Nm
with flag
.Fl v
will show which files are included.
.Ss Create optional make.conf
You can also specify a global make.conf which will be used for all the
jails.
Any of the following are allowed and will all be used in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<tree>-<setname>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<setname>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-<tree>-<setname>-make.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/hooks/plugins/<plugin>/make.conf
.Ss Create optional src.conf
You can also specify a global src.conf which will be used for building
jails with the
.Cm jail -c
subcommand.
Any of the following are allowed and will all be used in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/src.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-src.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-src.conf
.Ss Create optional src-env.conf
You can also specify a global src-env.conf which will be used for building
jails with the
.Cm jail -c
subcommand.
Any of the following are allowed and will all be used in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/src-env.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<setname>-src-env.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-src-env.conf
.Ss Hooks
Hook scripts may be loaded in any of the following paths:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/hooks/<hook>.sh
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/hooks/plugins/<plugin>/<hook>.sh
.Pp
For specific hook documentation see:
.Lk https://github.com/freebsd/poudriere/wiki/hooks
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-image 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-logclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-options 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-pkgclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh BUGS
In case of bugs, feel free to file a report:
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/freebsd/poudriere/issues
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
