.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 SRI International
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd November 10, 2025
.Dt POUDRIERE-PKGCLEAN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "poudriere pkgclean"
.Nd cleanup old or unwanted packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand
.Op Ar options
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Ar origin
.Op Ar origin2 Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command is used to delete all packages not specified to build.
By default packages
.Em not listed
will be deleted;
Listed packages, and their dependencies, will be kept.
.Pp
If
.Fl C
is specified then packages listed on the command line will be deleted
rather than kept.
Their orphaned dependencies will not be deleted.
A second run with a full list of wanted packages is needed to
cleanup orphaned dependencies.
.Pp
Either a subcommand or a list of port origins must be supplied.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl A
Remove all packages.
.It Fl a
Keep all known ports in the tree.
.It Fl f Ar file
Absolute path to a file which contains the list of ports to keep.
Ports must be specified in the form
.Ar category/port
and shell-style comments are allowed.
Multiple
.Fl f Ar file
arguments may be specified at once.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl C
Delete the listed packages rather than keep them.
This can be used to delete specific packages that need to be rebuilt
while keeping them in the port list file.
.Fl r
can be specified to delete reverse dependencies as well.
.It Fl J Ar number
This argument specifies how many
.Ar number
jobs will run in parallel for gathering package information.
.It Fl j Ar name
Jail to use for the packages to inspect.
.It Fl N
Do not build package repository when done cleaning.
.It Fl NN
Do not commit, or publish, the repository after it is cleaned.
.It Fl n
Dry run, do not actually delete anything.
.It Fl O Ar overlay
Specify an extra ports tree to use as an overlay.
Multiple
.Fl O Ar overlay
arguments may be specified to stack them.
.Pp
These overlays should be setup with
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 .
.It Fl p Ar tree
Specifies which ports
.Ar tree
to use.
.Pq Default: Dq Li default
.It Fl r
When
.Fl C
is specified then all reverse dependencies will be deleted as well.
This can be used to later force rebuild anything depending on the listed
packages.
.It Fl R
Also clean restricted packages.
.It Fl u
Force rebuilding and signing the repo, even if no change was made.
.It Fl v
This will show more information during the build.
Specify twice to enable debug output.
.It Fl y
Assume yes, do not confirm and just delete the files.
.It Fl z Ar set
SET to use for the packages to inspect.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poudriere 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-image 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-logclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-repo 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
