.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 SRI International
.\" Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Allan Jude <allanjude@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd April 18, 2023
.Dt POUDRIERE-IMAGE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "poudriere image"
.Nd build OS filesystem images
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl j Ar name
.Fl t Ar type
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Builds a filesystem image per the specified options.
.Pp
WARNING: This feature is still considered ALPHA.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-f packagelist"
.It Fl A Ar post-script
Source the
.Ar post-script
file after populating the
.Ev $WRKDIR Ns
/world directory.
.Pp
See the
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
section for a list of environment variables that are available.
.It Fl b
Place the swap partition before the primary partition(s) to allow the primary
partition to be grown to fill the remaining space on a disk.
.It Fl B Ar pre-script
Source the
.Ar pre-script
file before the image prepare function.
Can optionally replace the prepare function, in which case it should create the
image file, add partitions, format filesystems, and then mount them to
.Ev $WRKDIR Ns
/world before the contents are installed to that directory.
.Pp
See the
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
section for a list of environment variables that are available or may need to
be populated by the script.
.It Fl c Ar overlaydir
This specifies an extra directory whose contents will be copied directly into
the final image, starting from the root.
.It Fl f Ar packagelist
This specifies a list of packages to be pre-installed in the final image.
.It Fl h Ar hostname
This specifies the hostname used for the image.
Defaults to
.Ar poudriere-image .
.It Fl i Ar originimage
Path to a previously built image.
For
.Fl t Cm zsnapshot ,
this should be
.Pa full.img.gz .
For
.Fl t Cm zfs
this should be
.Pa image.full.zfs .
.It Fl j Ar name
This argument specifies the name of the jail that is used.
.It Fl m Ar overlaydir
Build a miniroot image as well (for tar type images), and copy this directory
into the miniroot image.
.It Fl n Ar name
This specifies the name of the resulting image.
.It Fl o Ar outputdir
This argument specifies directory where the resulting image will be created.
.It Fl p Ar tree
This argument specifies the name of the ports tree that is used.
.It Fl R Ar flags
The flags to pass to
.Ql Cm zfs send
when creating the replication stream.
These will control which features are enabled in the stream.
Default:
.Fl Rec
.It Fl S Ar snapshotname
Name of the snapshot for zsnapshot type.
.It Fl s Ar size
This specifies the maximum size of the image that is built.
.It Fl t Ar type
This specifies the type of image to create:
.Bl -tag -width "rawfirmware"
.It hybridiso
An ISO 9660 format image that that is also a valid GPT image and can be written
to a USB device for BIOS/legacy and UEFI boot.
.It iso
An ISO 9660 format image.
.It iso+mfs
An ISO 9660 format image where the root filesystem is MFS mounted.
.It iso+zmfs
An ISO 9660 format image where the root filesystem is LZ77 compressed and is MFS
mounted.
.It usb
A GPT-layout prepared UFS2 image containing a UEFI boot loader.
.It usb+mfs
A GPT-layout prepared UFS2 image containing a UEFI boot loader where the root
filesystem is MFS mounted.
.It usb+zmfs
A GPT-layout prepared UFS2 image containing a UEFI boot loader where the root
filesystem is LZ77 compressed and is MFS mounted.
.It rawdisk
A raw UFS2, softupdates-enabled, disk image.
.It zrawdisk
A raw ZFS disk image.
.It zfs
Create a ZFS image in the same style as
.Xr bsdinstall 8 .
Supports the following sub-types, defaulting to gpt if no subtype is specified:
.It zfs+gpt
Creates a complete disk image with a GPT partition table.
Includes both UEFI and Legacy boot code.
.It zfs+raw
Created an image of only the ZFS pool with no partitions.
Not bootable.
.It zfs+send
Creates a full ZFS replication stream of the whole pool, including the boot
environment, to be received using the
.Xr zfs-recv 8
command.
Alias for zfs+send+full.
You may create both send streams by specifying both sub-types
(example: zfs+send+full+be).
.It zfs+send+be
Creates a ZFS replication stream of only the boot environment.
.It tar
An XZ-compressed tarball.
.It firmware
A NanoBSD style image with a GPT partitions and a UEFI boot loader.
.It rawfirmware
A raw disk image.
.It zsnapshot
Create a zfs snapshot full and incremental to be used in a jail.
.El
.It Fl w Ar size
This specifies the size of the swap partition to be added to the image.
Size 0 skips the creation of a swap partition.
.It Fl X Ar excludefile
This specifies a list of files to exclude from the final image.
.It Fl z Ar set
This specifies which SET to use for the build.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "ZFS_BEROOT_NAME"
.It Ev IMAGESIZE
The size of the image file to be created, in bytes.
.It Ev IMAGENAME
The name of the image (from
.Fl n Ar name Ns
).
.It Ev SKIP_PREPARE
If set, do not run the image types default prepare function.
The pre-script must then create the image file, add partitions,
format filesystems, and then mount them to
.Ev $WRKDIR Ns
/world .
.It Ev WORLDDIR
The path to the directory that is the root of the image.
.It Ev ZFS_BEROOT_NAME
The name of the dataset that contains all boot environments.
Default: ROOT.
.It Ev ZFS_BOOTFS_NAME
The name of the default boot environment dataset.
Default: default.
.It Ev ZFS_POOL_NAME
The name of the ZFS pool.
Defaults to
.Ev zroot .
.It Ev md
The name of the
.Xr mdconfig 8
device corresponding to the image file.
The pre-script should populated this variable with the name of the md
device created, so that it is properly cleaned up after the image is created.
.El
.Sh CUSTOMIZATION
.Ss Create optional src.conf
An optional src.conf which will be used for building images.
Any of the following are allowed and will be applied in the order shown:
.Pp
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/src.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/<jailname>-src.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/image-<jailname>-src.conf
.Dl Pa /usr/local/etc/poudriere.d/image-<jailname>-<setname>-src.conf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poudriere 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-logclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-options 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-pkgclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
