.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 SRI International
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd April 26, 2021
.Dt POUDRIERE-OPTIONS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "poudriere options"
.Nd configure the options for a given port
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Fl f Ar file
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Ar origin
.Op Ar origin2 Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command configures the options for a given port.
.Pp
Either a file containing a list of port origins must be supplied with
the
.Fl f Ar file
option or a list of port origins must be supplied on the command line.
.Sh OPTIONS
.El
.Pp
This command accepts the following options:
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl a Ar architecture
Specifies which
.Ar architecture
of FreeBSD to use to show options.
.Po Default: the one of jail
.Ar jailname Pc
.It Fl C
Use 'config-conditional' target, which will only bring up the dialog on new options for the given ports.
(This is the default)
.It Fl c
Use 'config' target, which will always show the dialog for the given ports.
.It Fl f Ar file
Absolute path to a file which contains the list of ports to configure.
Ports must be specified in the form
.Ar category/port
and shell-style comments are allowed.
.It Fl j Ar jailname
If given, configure the options only for the given jail.
.It Fl n
Do not be recursive
.It Fl p Ar portstree
Run the configuration inside the given ports tree.
.Pq Default: Dq Li default
.It Fl r
Remove port options instead of configuring them
.It Fl s
Show port options instead of configuring them
.It Fl z Ar set
This specifies which SET to use for the build.
See
.Sx CUSTOMIZATION
in
.Xr poudriere 8
for examples of how this is used.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "TERM"
.It Ev TERM
Passed through for interactive config editing.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poudriere 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-image 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-logclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-pkgclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
