.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 SRI International
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd April 26, 2021
.Dt POUDRIERE-LOGCLEAN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "poudriere logclean"
.Nd cleanup old logfiles
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command will cleanup old logfiles.
.Pp
One
.Ar subcommand
must be supplied.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl a
Remove all logfiles matching the filter.
.It Ar days
How many days old of logfiles to keep matching the filter.
.It Fl N Ar count
How many logfiles to keep matching the filter per
jail/tree/set combination.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl j Ar name
Specifies the
.Ar name
of the jail to filter by.
.It Fl n
Dry run, do not actually delete anything.
.It Fl B Ar name
Specifies which buildname to match on.
May be a glob.
.It Fl p Ar tree
Specifies which ports
.Ar tree
to use.
.Pq Default: Dq Li default
This can be specified multiple times to consider multiple trees.
.It Fl y
Assume yes, do not confirm and just delete the files.
.It Fl v
This will show more information during the build.
Specify twice to enable debug output.
.It Fl z Ar set
This specifies which SET to filter builds by.
Use
.Sy 0
to match on empty SET.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poudriere 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-image 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-options 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-pkgclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-ports 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
