.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 SRI International
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.Dd April 26, 2021
.Dt POUDRIERE-PORTS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "poudriere ports"
.Nd manage ports trees
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar subcommand
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command provides management of different ports trees which will be used
by poudriere.
.Pp
One subcommand must be supplied.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "-f conffile"
.It Fl c
Creates a ports tree.
.It Fl d
Deletes a ports tree.
.It Fl l
List all available ports trees.
.It Fl u
Update a ports tree.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
Except for
.Fl l ,
all of the subcommands require the
.Fl p
switch (see below).
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-f filesystem"
.It Fl B Ar branch
Specifies which
.Ar branch
to checkout when using the
.Cm git
or
.Cm svn
methods.
.It Fl F
When used with
.Fl c ,
only create the needed file systems (for ZFS) and directories, but do
not populate them.
.It Fl f Ar filesystem
The name of the
.Ar filesystem
to create for the ports tree.
If set to
.Dq none
then do not create a filesystem.
Defaults to
.Dq poudriere/ports/default .
.It Fl k
When used with
.Fl d ,
only unregister the ports tree without removing the files.
.It Fl M Ar mountpoint
Path to the source of a ports tree.
.It Fl m Ar method
Specify which
.Ar method
to use to create the ports tree.
The default is
.Cm git+https .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width  "git+[protocol]"
.It Cm portsnap
Uses
.Xr portsnap 8
(deprecated).
.It Cm null
This option can be used to import an existing directory that already contains
a manually managed ports tree.
The path must be specified with
.Fl M Ar path .
The path will be null-mounted during builds.
.It Cm git Ns Op Cm + Ns Ar protocol
Use Git to download the sources.
.Pp
Sources will be cloned shallowly unless
.Fl D
is specified.
.Pp
Output will mostly be hidden unless
.Cm poudriere -v ports ,
or
.Fl v ,
are used.
.Pp
Use the
.Fl B Ar branch
parameter to set the branch name.
The Git server address is derived from the
.Va GIT_PORTSURL
variable in
.Pa poudriere.conf .
.Fl U Ar url
may be used to override that value.
.Pp
The following protocols are supported:
.Cm git No (default), Cm +http Ns , Cm +https Ns , Cm +file Ns , Cm +ssh Ns .
.It Cm svn Ns Op Cm + Ns Ar protocol
Use SVN to download the sources.
.Pp
Output will mostly be hidden unless
.Cm poudriere -v ports ,
or
.Fl v ,
are used.
.Pp
Use the
.Fl B Ar branch
parameter to set the branch name.
.Pp
The SVN host address is derived from the
.Va SVN_HOST
variable in
.Pa poudriere.conf .
.Fl U Ar url
may be used to override that value.
.Pp
The following protocols are supported:
.Cm svn No (default), Cm +http Ns , Cm +https Ns , Cm +file Ns , Cm +ssh Ns .
.El
.Pp
.It Fl n
When combined with
.Fl l ,
only display the name of the ports tree.
.It Fl p Ar name
Specifies the
.Ar name
of the ports tree to use.
.Pq Default: Dq Li default
.It Fl q
When used with
.Fl l ,
remove the header in the list view.
.It Fl U Ar url
Specifies which url to checkout from when using the
.Cm git
or
.Cm svn
methods.
.It Fl v
Show more verbose output.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl
.It
Creates a new checkout from Git called
.Sy default
from FreeBSD's official ports tree branch
.Sy main .
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
.Li # Ic poudriere ports -c
.Ed
.It
Creates a new checkout from Git called
.Sy quarterly
from FreeBSD's official ports tree branch
.Sy 2021Q1 .
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
.Li # Ic poudriere ports -c -p quarterly -B 2021Q1
.Ed
.It
Updates ports tree named
.Sy quarterly .
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
.Li # Ic poudriere ports -u -p quarterly
.Ed
.It
Import a local manually-managed ports tree named
.Sy local
from
.Pa /usr/ports .
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
.Li # Ic poudriere ports -c -p local -m null -M /usr/ports
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "HTTP_PROXY FTP_PROXY"
.It Ev FETCH_BIND_ADDRESS
The bind address used by
.Xr fetch 1 .
See
.Xr fetch 3
for more details.
.It Ev HTTP_PROXY HTTP_* http_* FTP_PROXY FTP_* http_* SSL_* NO_PROXY no_proxy
The proxy configuration for
.Xr fetch 1 .
See
.Xr fetch 3
for other supported proxy environment variables.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poudriere 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-bulk 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-distclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-image 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-jail 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-logclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-options 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-pkgclean 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-queue 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-status 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-testport 8 ,
.Xr poudriere-version 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq bapt@FreeBSD.org
.An Bryan Drewery Aq bdrewery@FreeBSD.org
